\section*{Abstract}
\label{sec:abstract}

The Oak Ridge Leadership Computing Facility (OLCF) is a leader in large-scale
parallel file system development, design, deployment and continuous operation.
For the last decade, the OLCF has designed and deployed two large center-wide
parallel file systems. Spider 1 system served the Jaguar supercomputer and
Spider 2 now serves Titan, among other OLCF computational resources. The OLCF
staff have been rigorously collecting file and storage system statistics from
these Spider systems.

In this paper we present the collected I/O workload statistics from the Spider
2 system and compare it to the Spider 1 data. Our analysis show that Spider 2
is exercised with a more write-heavy I/O workload compared to Spider 1 (75\%
vs. 60\%). Our data also show that the OLCF storage policies such as periodic
purges are effectively managing the capacity resource of Spider 2.
Furthermore, due to the fixes in dm\_multipath and ib\_srp software, we are
utilizing the Spider 2 system bandwidth and latency resources more
effectively. The Spider 2 bandwidth usage statistics shows that our system is
working within the design specifications, however, it is also evident that our
scientific applications can be more effectively served by a burst buffer
storage layer. All the data have been collected by monitoring tools developed
for the Spider ecosystem. We believe the observed data set and insights will
help us better design the next-generation Spider file and storage system. It
will also be helpful to the larger community for building more effective
large-scale file and storage systems.

 
